Dev to master footnotes (#7)
aroz73096/anthonyrozmajzl.com: content/post/yet-another-reason-to-privatize-the-police.md

+++

In a matter of hours the entire nation was made aware of the gruesome and undeniably wrongful death of George Floyd, a 46 year old man who was [suffocated](https://twitter.com/QasimRashid/status/1265389213714915333) to death for [using a forged $20 bill](https://www.thecut.com/2020/05/man-pinned-down-by-minneapolis-police-officer-dies.html)[^1] and [refusing to return](https://en.as.com/en/2020/05/31/other_sports/1590954856_526126.html) his stolen goods to
Cup Foods, a small grocery store in Minneapolis, Minnesota. 

> This tragedy has unequivocally refocused national attention on the problem of police brutality, a well-known feature of the current police system.[^2] Social media quickly became laced with dozens, if not hundreds of videos capturing horrific abuses of power in the wake of protests catalyzed by Floyd's death. I am not talking so much about the aggressive and unconventional law enforcement measures taken against belligerent rioters and aggressive thieves, but those taken against peaceful protestors and non-violent citizens for crimes like [voicing discontent](https://twitter.com/sweeeetdee_/status/1267319103167107072?s=20) with local law enforcement or [filming police from your private property](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/06/02/george-floyd-protest-minneapolis-cops-shoot-paint-people-porch/3123781001/). These are only two of the many instances of badge abuse that have occurred in just the past couple of weeks. Far more disturbing, however, is The Free Thought Project's collection of [more than 600 *pages*](https://thefreethoughtproject.com/category/cop-watch/) of incidents in which police officers are caught grossly abusing their power. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This tragedy has refocused national attention on the problem of police brutality, an all-to-common mark of the current police system.[^2] Social media quickly became laced with dozens, if not hundreds of videos capturing abuses of power in the wake of protests catalyzed by Floyd's death.  Lest one object that these are merely instances of legitimate protection of person and property in confronting violent rioters and looter, consider that many of these measures were taken against peaceful protestors and non-violent citizens for "crimes" like [voicing discontent](https://twitter.com/sweeeetdee_/status/1267319103167107072?s=20) with local law enforcement or [filming police from your private property](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/06/02/george-floyd-protest-minneapolis-cops-shoot-paint-people-porch/3123781001/). These are only two of the many instances of badge abuse that have occurred in just the past couple of weeks. Far more disturbing, however, is The Free Thought Project's collection of [more than 600 *pages*](https://thefreethoughtproject.com/category/cop-watch/) of incidents in which police officers are caught grossly abusing their power. 
```

Author: It should say "all-too-common" instead of "all-to-common"

> This tragedy has unequivocally refocused national attention on the problem of police brutality, a well-known feature of the current police system.[^2] Social media quickly became laced with dozens, if not hundreds of videos capturing horrific abuses of power in the wake of protests catalyzed by Floyd's death. I am not talking so much about the aggressive and unconventional law enforcement measures taken against belligerent rioters and aggressive thieves, but those taken against peaceful protestors and non-violent citizens for crimes like [voicing discontent](https://twitter.com/sweeeetdee_/status/1267319103167107072?s=20) with local law enforcement or [filming police from your private property](https://www.usatoday.com/story/news/nation/2020/06/02/george-floyd-protest-minneapolis-cops-shoot-paint-people-porch/3123781001/). These are only two of the many instances of badge abuse that have occurred in just the past couple of weeks. Far more disturbing, however, is The Free Thought Project's collection of [more than 600 *pages*](https://thefreethoughtproject.com/category/cop-watch/) of incidents in which police officers are caught grossly abusing their power. 

Reviewer: Not sure about the wording above.  Made an attempt.  You may want to rework.

Author: I liked your wording better

> This is hardly to say there are no good or honest police officers. But thanks to the [abundance of laws](https://mises.org/wire/too-many-laws-why-police-encounters-escalate) that mark many non-violent persons as criminals, good police officers, and many bad ones, are unnecessarily thrust into dangerous situations where excessive force and abuses of power are likely to manifest. This host of criminal offenses, mingled with an overwhelming rap sheet[^3] of badge abuse and an utter lack of decent economic incentives, make it such that the chances of a deadly or abusive encounter with a police officer are far more likely than a deadly or abusive encounter with a private security guard.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is hardly to say there are no good or honest police officers. But thanks to the [abundance of laws](https://mises.org/wire/too-many-laws-why-police-encounters-escalate) that brand many non-violent persons as criminals, good police officers, and many bad ones, are unnecessarily thrust into dangerous situations where excessive force and abuses of power are likely to manifest. This host of "criminal" offenses, mingled with a long rap sheet[^3] of badge abuse and an absence of sound economic incentives, make a deadly or abusive encounter with a police officer far more likely than a deadly or abusive encounter with a private security guard.
```

Competition gives rise to the abundance of different products and services available to us. It encourages innovation, cost-cutting, day-to-day efficiency, and friendly customer service. Business that do a better job of implementing these things are going to satisfy a greater number of consumers and be rewarded with larger revenue and increased profits. The moment consumers become dissatisfied with a business for any reason, they file complaints, leave negative reviews, request refunds and returns, or take their money elsewhere. As a business owner or entrepreneur, refusing to correct any inefficiencies in your business, ignoring customer feedback, or ceasing to innovate is an open invitation for another business or entrepreneur to take your place. Because markets operate in this manner, they present us with a tremendous overflow of choices that allow us to seamlessly switch between products and services to appease our ever-changing preferences. 

> But rather than subjecting state-funded police to the same mechanisms that make market economies so competitive and flowing with choice &mdash; freedom of entry, the profit and loss mechanism, competitive innovation, and the desire to reduce business costs &mdash; there is no question that a majority of our nation would rather it be the sacrosanct duty of the state alone to provide us with policing services. And why should that be? Policing services are no more unique than any other service, nor is their provision too complicated for the world's most technologically advanced and innovative private sector[^4]. Why have a one-size-fits-all, forcibly funded monopoly on police provision as opposed to tens, hundreds, or thousands of voluntarily funded, private policing firms that are actually beholden to their customers and tied to the profit and loss system of the marketplace?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
But rather than subjecting state-funded police to the same mechanisms that make market economies so competitive and flowing with choice &mdash; freedom of entry, the profit and loss mechanism, competitive innovation, and the desire to reduce business costs &mdash; there is no question that a majority of our nation would rather it be the sacrosanct duty of the state alone to provide us with policing services. And why should that be? Policing services are no more unique than any other service, nor is their provision too complicated for the world's most technologically advanced and innovative private sector[^4]. Why have a one-size-fits-all, forcibly funded monopoly on police provision as opposed to tens, hundreds, or thousands of voluntarily funded, private policing firms that are actually beholden to their customers and subject to the profit and loss system of the marketplace?
```

> Businesses, apartment complexes, neighborhoods, and other key stakeholders in a community's well-being are strongly incentivized to provide policing services &mdash; independently or collectively &mdash; so that consumers can safely patronize businesses and individuals can feel safe living in their apartments and neighborhoods. Should we not expect that the incentive for community stakeholders to offer policing services would also be met with an equal demand for security on behalf of individual consumers, property owners, and business owners, none of whom desire to live in unsafe neighborhoods or conduct businesses in dangerous communities? So long as consumer demand exists for safety and protection, which it always will, free market entrepreneurship will direct the necessary resources to meet those demands.[^5]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Businesses, apartment complexes, neighborhoods, and other key stakeholders in a community's well-being are strongly incentivized to provide policing services &mdash; independently or collectively &mdash; so that consumers can safely patronize businesses and individuals can feel safe living in their apartments and neighborhoods. Should we not expect that the incentive for community stakeholders to offer policing services would also be met with an equal demand for security on behalf of individual consumers, property owners, and business owners, none of whom desire to live in unsafe neighborhoods or conduct businesses in dangerous communities? So long as consumer demand exists for safety and protection, a condition likely to persist this side of heaven, free market entrepreneurship will direct the necessary resources to meet those demands.[^5]
```

Business insurers clearly have plenty of skin in the game when it comes to preventing mass property damage and theft to their policyholders. No insurance provider benefits from having to pay out claims; and after having witnessed the utter failure of state-funded police to perform their most basic duties, insurance providers may have all the incentive they need to start offering their own private protection and law enforcement.

Aside from the state's monopoly on police provision, nothing stands in the way of a market solution pioneered by insurance companies that allows individuals and businesses to purchase security insurance policies for property protection and defense against criminal behavior. Would such a system be so different from how we subscribe to, and seamlessly switch between, auto-insurance providers and different levels of coverage tailored to our specific needs? 

> In terms of commercial security policies, businesses in remote areas may find it beneficial to purchase an individual security policy for the protection of only that business's premises. In more crowded locations it might be more cost-effective for businesses and apartment complexes located within a particular city block, street, or district to pool their funding and purchase a group security policy to prevent criminal activity and protect personal property across a wider area. When it comes to residential protection, members of homeowners associations (HOAs) can, and already do, pay monthly dues for [private HOA security teams](http://bravothree.com/homeowners-association-security/) to ensure that their residential areas are properly patrolled for criminal activity and that residents adhere to the laws and regulations of the HOA to which they voluntarily subscribe. Why would insurance companies be any less capable of expanding similar services into commercial areas?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Businesses in remote areas may find it beneficial to purchase an individual security policy for the protection of only that business's premises. In more crowded locations it might be more cost-effective for businesses and apartment complexes located within a particular city block, street, or district to pool their funding and purchase a group security policy to prevent criminal activity and protect personal property across a wider area. When it comes to residential protection, members of homeowners associations (HOAs) can, and already do, pay monthly dues for [private HOA security teams](http://bravothree.com/homeowners-association-security/) to ensure that their residential areas are properly patrolled for criminal activity and that residents adhere to the laws and regulations of the HOA to which they voluntarily subscribe. Why would insurance companies be any less capable of expanding similar services into commercial areas?
```

The very simple metrics of profit and loss determine how successful business are in meeting the needs of consumers. Private enterprises that waste resources, drive away customers with poor service, or refuse to tailor their products and services to meet consumer demand will quickly find themselves losing revenue as consumers decide to patronize the more profitable, i.e. successful, businesses.

> Police departments, being financially secured through taxation and, as a last resort, the printing press face no financial consequences for squandering resources, failing to cut costs, refusing to innovate, or wrongfully killing one of their constituents. This is because the continued operation of police departments is not contingent upon the voluntary patronage of its citizens. No amount of consumer dissatisfaction, resource waste, or business malpractice will lead to a loss of revenue that would force departments to rethink their allocation of resources or business practices.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Police departments, being financially secured through taxation and, as a last resort, the printing press face no financial consequences for squandering resources, failing to cut costs, refusing to innovate, or wrongfully killing one of their constituents. This is because the continued operation of police departments does not depend upon the voluntary patronage of its citizens. No amount of consumer dissatisfaction, resource waste, or business malpractice will lead to a loss of revenue that would force departments to rethink their allocation of resources or business practices.
```

## There was no reason for George Floyd to die

> One can only wonder whether George Floyd would have died if his arrest had been carried out by a privatized police force that was held accountable to the profit and loss system, in constant competition with other agencies to provide the most just and peaceful means of dispute resolution, and unanointed with the doctrine of qualified immunity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
One can only wonder whether George Floyd would have died if his arrest had been carried out by a privatized police force that was held accountable by the profit and loss system - a private protection firm in constant competition with other agencies to provide the most equitable and peaceful means of dispute resolution, and without the special privilege of qualified immunity.
```

> We live in the world's most technologically advanced and competitive economy. Normal human beings will always demand protection for themselves, their families, their property, and their businesses. In light of all the protesting, looting and overwhelming dissatisfaction with state-funded police, it is time for the free market to begin protecting and serving our communities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We live in the world's most technologically advanced and competitive economy. Normal human beings will always demand protection for themselves, their families, their property, and their businesses. In light of all the protesting, looting and dissatisfaction with state-funded police, it is time for the free market to begin protecting and serving our communities.
```

> [^1]: If we are going to be nabbing citizens for using counterfeit money, we might want to consider proportional fines for the Federal Reserve, an institution that has been counterfeiting to the tune of trillions for more than a century.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^1]: If we are going to be nabbing citizens for using counterfeit money, we might want to consider proportional fines for the Federal Reserve, an institution that has been counterfeiting to a staggering degree for more than a century.
```

> [^2]: The claim that brutality is a well-known feature of the police system is hardly irrefutable, as the term "police brutality" is the only one of its kind. Can you remember the last time you heard someone speak of "Walmart brutality," "Costco brutality," "Gamestop brutality," "Papa Johns brutality," and so on?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^2]: The term "police brutality" is the only one of its kind. Can you remember the last time you heard someone speak of "Walmart brutality," "Costco brutality," "Gamestop brutality," "Papa Johns brutality," and so on?
```

> [^2]: The claim that brutality is a well-known feature of the police system is hardly irrefutable, as the term "police brutality" is the only one of its kind. Can you remember the last time you heard someone speak of "Walmart brutality," "Costco brutality," "Gamestop brutality," "Papa Johns brutality," and so on?

Reviewer: You may want to research some of the bigger private security/protection firms to see if "brutality" comes up in reference to them.

Author: A cursory glance didn't produce anything meaningful

[^3]: I would challenge any proponent of state-funded police to find a single surviving private company whose number of instances of physical abuse and intimidation of their customers rival those of state-funded police. 

> [^4]: Most people simply lack the imagination to even entertain the notion of privatized police. They will use their inability to conceive of what a privately funded policing business might look as evidence for the impracticality of private policing. Murray Rothbard offered a number of solutions in his 1979 manifesto [*For a New Liberty*](https://mises.org/library/new-liberty-libertarian-manifesto), written in an era far less technologically advanced than the one we live in today.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[^4]: Most people simply lack the imagination to even entertain the notion of privatized police. They mistake their inability to conceive of what a privately funded policing business might look as evidence for the impracticality of private policing. Murray Rothbard offered a number of solutions in his 1979 manifesto [*For a New Liberty*](https://mises.org/library/new-liberty-libertarian-manifesto), written in an era far less technologically advanced than the one we live in today.
```

Reviewer: Could also use "confuse" instead of "mistake"
